in this video we will relate the
properties of water from three point one
point five to the ways in which water is
used due to waters high latent heat of
vaporization relative to other liquids
it can be used as a coolant via sweating
or perspiration
heat from the body of the organism is
used to turn the sweat which is
primarily composed of water from a
liquid into a gas and this therefore
lowers the temperature of the organism
another thermal property is that water
has a high specific heat capacity
relative to other liquids this means
that water can absorb more energy
relative to other liquids before
changing temperature therefore ocean
lake and pond habitats maintain a fairly
stable temperature and organisms living
in them waste less energy on
thermoregulation waters polarity allows
it to dissolve other biochemical
important polar molecules it can
therefore be used as a medium for
metabolic reactions and for transport of
those dissolved substances in this
simple demonstration carbon dioxide is
being blown through and dissolved in
lime water here you can observe a
chemical reaction taking place in the
solution that results in the lime water
turning cloudy this is applicable to
living organisms because metabolic
reactions such as respiration take place
in aqueous solutions such as the
cytoplasm which is primarily composed of
water blood the liquid portion of which
is known as plasma and primarily
composed of water is able to transport
these dissolved substances around the
body substances such as glucose and
amino acids the carbon dioxide produced
from respiration is also able to be
transported in the blood as hydrogen
carbonate ions cohesion is when water
molecules are attracted to each other as
a result of polar covalent bonding this
capillary tube only one millimeter thick
shows the ability of water to move as a
column are per tiny tube this is
applicable to organisms because such
tiny tubes could be the vascular tissue
in plants vascular tissue composed of
xylem and phloem this contributes to the
ability of water to move up and through
a plant from its roots
finally the cohesion of the water
molecules resulting from the polar
covalent bonding also leads to a high
surface tension which allows some
organisms such as these pong skaters to
live and effectively walk on water